The AI rag landscape completely changed
a few days ago with the release of
Google's brand new embedding 2 model.
Now, this is huge because this finally
allows us to do what we've all been
trying to do for a few years now, which
is directly embed videos and images into
our vector databases. But here's what
nobody is telling you. Being able to
embed a video into a vector database is
not the same as being able to analyze a
video inside a vector database.
confused? Well, that's not surprising.
Most people are, which is why none of
these videos talking about embedding 2
get this right. It is not as simple as
just hooking up embedding 2 to an
existing rag structure and being able to
say, "Oh, now I can ask questions about
this video." That is not the case. There
are actually additional steps required
to create a rag architecture that can
get the most out of these embedded
videos. And today, I'm going to show you
exactly how to do that. On top of that,
we are going to have a nuanced but
thorough discussion about rag and
embedding because this is a confusing
topic and you do need to understand
what's actually happening under the hood
here to figure out this whole
architecture mess. Lastly, I'll be
giving you a GitHub repo with the proper
rag architecture so you can just clone
it, copy it, do whatever you want and
essentially have a 90% solution ready to
go so you can navigate this minefield
right off the bat. All right, so let's
open with the good stuff. So this is the
GitHub repo. I was talking about. Inside
of here, you will find essentially the
basic rag architecture that I'm going to
be talking about in depth from now on.
You have two options. You can clone this
thing and then point cloud code at it,
or I have a markdown file here called
claude code blueprint, which you could
copy and paste in clawed code, and it
will tell it exactly how it should set
itself up. So, you can just take this
and go forth and conquer, but I highly
highly suggest you watch the rest of
this so you actually understand the
thought process behind it. Now, speaking
of Claude Code, quick plug. I just
dropped my Cloud Code master class
inside of Chase AI Plus this last week.
There's a link to that in the pin
comments, and I'm dropping a ton of
updates tomorrow. So, if you're trying
to go from zero to AI dev, this is the
place to do it. So, make sure to check
it out. So, let's quickly talk about
Gemini Embedding 2, Google's first
natively multimodal embedding model. So,
the big thing with this is we can now
ingest things beyond text, right? We can
put images, videos, audios, and
documents and embed them inside of a
vector database. This is huge because
before we were pretty much limited to
text and if you wanted to do videos, it
was kind of hacky workarounds where you
do descriptions of videos and then put
those in as vectors. This has huge
business implications and organization
implications. Imagine you have a ton of
proprietary data that was all
video-based. How were you able to
analyze it from a rag point of view? It
was really tough to do. Now, this is
much easier because it embeds the video
itself. Now, this obviously comes with
some limitations, right? The videos can
only be 120 seconds at a time, text up
to 8,192,
etc., etc. But there's workarounds for
almost all these. But this is where we
start to have issues. So, the idea that
is being promoted by most people
discussing this topic and I think the,
you know, intuitive idea is that okay, I
can now embed videos. So, let's imagine
I found a video I loved, right? Claude
code plus playright equals insane
browser automations, right? You love
this video so much you wanted to
download it and put it inside a rag
system. So you could ask questions about
it, right? What if you wanted to know
some things and you didn't want to watch
the video every single time? Well, you
know, well, I have embedding too now, so
I should be able to embed it. Then I ask
questions. Simple enough, right? In
theory, it should be like this, right?
Inside of Google, I can ask Gemini about
this video. So I can say, "Hey, you
know, how does Playright test without
opening browsers?" And it answers it.
That is the expectation and that's
what's kind of being sold. This is not
how it works because you would expect
that you would ask questions just like
we were doing here on the right and it
would give you responses in text and
maybe would reference parts of the
video. However, instead what would
happen if you took a standard naive rag
system and hooked up embedding 2 to it.
It would not give you a detailed text
response. It would just give you a clip
of the video. So, it would be like me
asking, "Hey, uh, talk to me about the
playwright stuff that happened in this
video." Instead of saying, "Oh, yeah,
here's A, B, and C. Here's what
happened." It would just give me like a
two-minute clip and be like, "Answers in
there, brother." Like, that's how it
works. That's how most people are
showing you how to set this up. There's
some value in that, but that's not
really what we want, right? That's not
how we really derive value. And to
understand that dichconomy, you need to
understand how embeddings work and how
the whole rag system is even set up
because we can solve this. It is a
solvable problem. So here's my beautiful
illustration for a basic naive rag
system. I know you're all here for the
top tier graphics and this is some of my
best work yet. So rag retrieval
augmented generation. You understand how
this works, right? You ask the large
language model a question. It retrieves
additional information from the vector
database to augment the answer it
generates for you. Hence, rag. This side
of the equation is pretty easy to get.
Now, let's talk about the other side of
the equation, the document ingestion
equation. The idea that I have some sort
of data source and I want to put it into
the vector database to help augment the
answers. Well, let's go through the
standard user journey of a document,
right? Traditionally, that is some sort
of text document. Correct? So, the text
document, let's say this text document
is about World War II battleships. I
send the text document to the brand new
Google embedding model, right? This is
the Google embedding model. This
embedding model is going to turn this
document into a vector. Now, what is a
vector? Well, a vector is just a point
in space on a graph. You understand a
graph, right? Like back in geometry,
right? XYaxis that's two dimensions a
vector database is hundreds and hundreds
and hundreds of dimensions thousands of
dimensions okay but you can think of it
as 3D in this case now these blue dots
are the vectors and again it's just
numbers that represent the point in
space so you know you had your graph
from school right what would this vector
be right here
this would be one one right that's what
that point is in terms of math Same
thing here,
but instead of two numbers, you see it's
three numbers. In reality, for us, it'd
be 1,526
numbers, right? That's what's in space.
That's a vector. And so, when our
document goes through the embedding
model, what does it do? It's turning our
document into 1,526
different numbers, which are represented
by one of these little dots on the
graph. Now, how does it know what
numbers to give this PDF document? And
how does it know where to put it in
space? Well, it is put inside the vector
database based on semantic meaning. Aka,
what is the document even talking about?
Remember what it is? This is World War
II battleships. So, where is it going to
go? Well, it's going to go next to ships
and boats, right? Makes sense. It's not
going to be by bananas and green apples,
right? The numbers are all about being
able to compare it to other vectors. So
our PDF document is now a vector and it
has a billion different number numbers
associated with it. So it's just a point
in space with a bunch of numbers and
this PDF document just imagine it living
inside of you know one of these vectors
right it's actually paired with it but
for your mental model you can imagine it
living inside the vector now we'll make
this guy a little bigger now now you
then ask a question saying hey I got a
question about World War II battleships
okay let me take a look your question
tell me about World War II battleships
also becomes a vector a string of
numbers and our LLM is going to go into
the vector database and say, "Hey, I
have this question. It's a billion
different numbers. What vectors are
closest to that number?" In this case,
your PDF because it's about battleships
has a number close to your question. And
so, it grabs that vector. Now, it grabs
the vector and everything that's paired
with it. And what was paired with it?
What was the document itself? Now, this
is the important part, and this is where
the video stuff's going to come in,
right? because it grabbed a vector that
is a word document. It is text, right?
The LLM can easily ingest that text to
augment its answer, right? It isn't just
grabbing a random attachment in space
and saying, "Here's the attachment,
brother. Figure it out." It's actually
going to link it for sure, but it's
going to use that as part of its answer.
It can actually ingest it. Do you
understand where I'm going with this?
And if you don't, I'll explain even more
in a second. So, it grabs it, adds it to
the answer. Cool. Everybody's happy.
Hopefully, you know, clear as mud. All
right. So, now let's think about this.
Bye-bye, graph. Let's think about this
from the video perspective. It's the
same journey. You have a video you want
to put inside the vector database. It is
a video about World War II battleships.
So, it goes through the embeder. Boom,
boom, boom, boom, boom. What happens?
Well, you know what happens? It gets
turned into 1526 different numbers or
it's represented by that. So this video,
not a description of the video, not a
transcript of the video. The video
itself
is embedded. Okay. So now it's a vector,
right? It's a bunch of numbers. You
again say, "Hey, I want to know more
about World War II battleships." Okay,
we turn that into a vector. Turn that
into a bunch of numbers. Which vectors
are closest? Oh, it's this guy. All
right, bring him up. What's he paired
with? What do we got? Well, we got a
video.
Do you see the problem that's about to
occur? This is a video. This is an MP4
file. And our large language model
unless it's something specific like
Gemini
cannot ingest this and answer your
question based on the what's in the
video. In fact, we can't even answer ask
real questions about this video because
it is just a video. So, when you ask
your question about World War II
battleships, it's going to just hand it
to you a two-minute clip out of whatever
you know, however long that video was.
hopefully was the right one and say,
"Hey, there you go. Good luck. Here's
your answer." Now, obviously, our large
language model in this case does have
training data about World War II and
battleship, so it would be able to
accentuate the video. But imagine this
was a proprietary data video type deal.
There's no additional information
coming. Is this the system that you have
in mind when you hear that embedded
videos are now a thing in RAG? No, it's
not. The expectation is that hey the LLM
can take a look at what's inside the
video do analysis take a look at the
transcript all that and yeah sure give
me the video clip but also accentuate
that with like analysis of the video we
can do that and you can probably start
to figure out how we could and the
places we could do that but understand
what you see everywhere else what people
talk about when it comes to betting too
is this system this system is crippled
right even if you use something like
Gemini here and this isn't like sonnet
or opus Do you also want to have Gemini
every time you ask a question that
brings in a video from the vector
database to take all the time to digest
it? No. No. No. No. Absolutely not. In
which case the answer becomes kind of
obvious, right? Enter Gemini. What we
want to do is we don't want to just
embed this video as is as a vector.
Although we still want to embed the
video, we want to include other things
with that pairing. We want to include a
description of the video, a transcript
of the video, some sort of text. So when
this vector gets pulled, we don't just
get the video alongside it. We get the
accompanying, you know, document as well
or written transcription as well,
something that the AI system can
actually ingest. And like I said before,
we don't want to do this on the back
end. We want to do this on the front end
when we ingest in the first place. So
when we first give it that video, it
goes along with its written description.
So we only have to figure that out once.
And in terms of architecting this, well,
it just means we create a pipeline where
when we ingest a document, specifically
something that is non-ext, it also gets
run through Gemini, right? In this case,
it's 3.1 flashlight to give us some sort
of text explanation that can accompany
the video. So when you ask the question,
we can actually augment it with real
answers. And again, I know that was a
long and potentially convoluted
explanation of it, but I hope that got
across, you know, a how the rag system
data flows, where vectors play into all
this. The and also your question
probably is like, okay, so it can embed
the video, which means it understands
the video. Why doesn't it include an
explanation? And the answer is because
that's not what embedding models do,
right? Embedding models take data and
they turn it into a vector. They embed
it, right? And it's all about
differentiation or like similarity and
it's all about the search side of it.
It's not about the explanation part, you
know, it's like the difference between
being able to recognize a face in the
crowd and then the other part of your
brain be able to describe who it is,
what they do, and all those other
things, right? This just that's just not
part of its job. That's why we can't do
it. That's why we have to augment it
with Gemini. And so, if you're still
here watching this, that is what our rag
infrastructure needs to look like. We
have to add Gemini on this side. So
there you have it. And because I cannot
stop belaboring the point, here's sort
of an example of this entire system in
action. What you're looking at right
here is the multimodal rag system. This
the same thing in the GitHub, right? And
I gave it that same video we saw on
YouTube, the one about um Playright CLI.
This is the sort of answer you get when
we have the proper architecture, when
the video is augmented with some sort of
explanation, right? We ran it through
Gemini and you can see, hey, it gives me
a full text description. You can see all
the chunks it grabbed. And we'll talk
about chunks in a second. And here at
the bottom, hey, I have my full media
preview. I can actually watch the video.
Compare that to the exact same rag
system minus the Gemini side, right?
This sort of like basic one that doesn't
take into this any into account like
everything everyone's showing you. Same
question. And the answer is like
basically there's insufficient
information to explain how to manage
multiple browser automations. Here's
some source files. It gives me the
source files. Right? Big big difference
with what we can do with that. And the
last thing I want to touch on before
implementation is a part of the
architecture that still definitely needs
work and is not a solved thing even in
the GitHub I give you. And that is how
do we chunk up the video? Right?
Chunking is something we've been dealing
with from text for a long time. Right?
If you don't understand chunking, well,
it's the idea that, hey, we have this
document that's going to go in our rag
system, but we can't put the whole thing
in there at once. There's a limit. So,
what we do instead is we like, you know,
cut it off at certain points, right? And
there's ways to intelligently do that.
Now, video, it's kind of the same thing
because if we have a video, right, and
it's say an hour long, well, where do we
cut the video off? That's not a great
color. Where do we like that? Also is
not a great color. going where do we
like cut this video off and ingest it
right how can we intelligently do that
tough tough question right because if
it's an hourong video that's a lot to
analyze in the first place um do we do
it with the transcript what are the
options here not solved the solution I
came up with just due to its simplicity
is we have claude code automatically
chop it up at like the two-minute mark
essentially and there's a 30-second
overlap it's a very simplistic way of
handling uh chunking for video, but it's
a way people have dealt with text
documents for a long long time. Not to
say it's the great the best way to do
it, but you know, it's a somewhat proven
proven
formula. So, implementing this thing,
like I said, two ways to do it. One,
clone this repo, point cloud code at it,
and just say, "Hey, I essentially want
to recreate it on my own." Cloud code
will take care of the rest. Second
option, click on the cloud code
blueprint, copy this whole thing, paste
it into cloud code, and it will also do
all the work. I also lay out how to do
that on the readme as well as some of
the prerequisites, right? You're going
to need updated Python, FFmpeg,
Superbase CLI because I use Superbase
for the vector database. Understand you
could replace that with something like
Pine Cone or whatever else you wanted
to. And then we do need Gemini, a Gemini
API key, and a Superbase project. And if
you do it this way, cloud code will
quite literally hold your hand. So, I'm
not going to spend the next 30 minutes
watching you hit accept or having you
watch me hit accept over and over and
over. I'm just going to walk you through
some of the Superbase stuff real quick
so you know where to find some API keys
because that will probably trip you up
because after you get the API keys with
Superbase, like I said, this is going to
have Claude Code install Superbase CLI
for you or at least prompt you to get
that done. That way, Cloud Code handles
all the database creation. You don't
have to go in there and like put in any
SQL code or anything like that. So,
you'll go to superbase.com, create an
account. It can be a free account. The
free tier is more than enough for this.
And you're going to need a few different
keys. You're going to need your public
API key and you're also going to need
your Superbase URL. So, you're going to
click inside your database that you
created or your project. Then, you're
going to come over to the left, go to
project settings, go to API keys,
click on legacy anon role API keys, and
your anon public API key is right here.
And to get your URL, you go to connect,
scroll down, and it's right here. Next,
public superbase URL. You'll copy
whatever the rest of that is. And if
it's your first time hooking up the
Superbase CLI, it will ask you for your
access token. But again, Cloud Code will
walk you through it and it will even
give you the link for that
authentication piece. Beyond that, the
only other key you'll need is a Gemini
API key. I have a link here and Cloud
Code will also give you that link. Now,
if you want to run some of the tests I'm
about to show, I included most of them.
I didn't include the actual video. You
can download your own video. I wasn't
going to put it in here, but it's inside
of assets. And so, if you go to docs, I
have a few markdown docs as well as
images. So, you can kind of test it out
and and we'll see it it work right here.
And Claude Code came up with this super
basic UI. So, when you go to upload, you
can just drop your file in here. You hit
upload. Once you upload it the first
time, again, I didn't spend any time on
the actual UI. There'll be a little X
button right here. Just click X and then
do another one. It lets you do it just
once one at a time, but feel free to
make a better UI. It shouldn't take
long. So, here's what it kind of looks
like. So, if I do all and I can even
ramp up the amount of results we get and
I say, "Hey, how can I run multiple
browsers automation at the same time and
I click that." Now, you'll see kind of
the power of having this multimodal
embedding because again, remember,
usually what do we get back? Just text.
Obviously, we want text to be able to
have a back and forth. But you'll see
here I not only get text and obviously
it calls out the actual links. It gives
me this cool installation thing, but
look at that. I have the video, right?
The video is embedded, so I can see it
down here. But I also have some matched
images, right? This is something you
really couldn't do before prior to
embedding, too. Like this is a massive,
massive, massive leap forward in terms
of rag functionality, you know, given
you set up the architecture correctly.
But just having this, right, being able
to not only get the text answered, but
to have it accompanied by this sort of
media, right, whether it's images or
video, and I don't even have audio in
here, although by virtue of it being a
video, it includes audio. Massive. Like
this is great. This is really cool
stuff. I just think the architecture
obviously needs a little work. And then
I think the biggest thing that this
needs work on is again the video
chunking. All right, the video chunking
is going to be a big deal. Just like
text chunking is a huge deal even now.
and there's more and more sophisticated
ways for dealing with text chunking. I
think we're gonna have to, you know,
apply that same logic to video and maybe
like also add things like re-rankers.
So, that's where I'm going to leave you
guys for today. I know we kind of sped
through the actual setup process for
this, but like between the clone and the
prompt that's included here, Cloud Code
kind of does it for you. So, um you're
not missing out too much. And this is
just a skeleton. All right. This will
give you 90 pin solution. that's going
to work. But this isn't like the
ultimate production red production
ready, you know, implementation of this
new multimodal rag system. Definitely
add your own bells and whistles.
Definitely play with the UI. Definitely
think about chunking. And then also
start to think about, you know, like
data cleanup. What would you do if you
added or edited some sort of document
that's already in the database? What do
you do? Those are the type of questions
that I would be asking as I move this to
production. So, as always, let me know
what you thought. Definitely check out
Chase AI Plus in the pin comment if you
want to get your hands on the Cloud Code
Masterass. If you're new to AI, I also
have a free Chase AI community that's in
the description. Tons of free resources,
so there's something for everybody. But
besides that, I'll see you